FOST SENESE
Advanced Hydrogen Sensing
Ensuring a safe and effective transition to a Hydrogen Economy
FEASIBILITY STUDY 
STARTED FOR ### UNIT’S 
FOR H2 REDELIVERY IN 
EUROPEAN GAS NETWORK 
CONTRACT SIGNED FOR 
10 INSTRUMENTS & 
SHARED IP ON NEW H2S 
MEMBRANE
PROF DAVID 
ZITOUN
CTO
ENERGY 
STORAGE
10 Patents. 8 Patents used within 
Industry. Head of the Dept of Chemistry Bar-Ilan University Nano Centre
DR SANJAY 
UPADHYAY
Chief Chemist
HYDROGEN 
SENSORS
PHD Hydrogen sensing: Synthesis of layered 2H–MoSe2 nanosheets for the high-performance supercapacitor electrode material
MR. DAVID 
SUTER
CEO
DATA 
INTEROPERABILITY
Serial science tech, winning awards, smart city hackathons finalist at TechCrunch 
Disrupt. ICO Standards Committee
Scientists
Humboldt Berlin
Materials and Energy Storage
Prof. Nicola Pinna
Prof. Frderic Favier
Montpellier University
Green Flame Sensors
Anne Baer
iKare Innovation 
Sustainability
Kevin Shacknofsky
O&G
Finance
Advisory Board
Prof. Shpaisman Hagay
Bar Ilan University
Quantum optics with multi-photon
Elizaveta Lukovskaya
Bar Ilan University
Compliance and Regulations
Solar Edge
Hydrogen Sensors
Dr. Guy Rahamim
Team
LEAK DETECTION
H2 | INA1R
Rip and stick sensors, detectable at 70 ppm only, embeddable at 3μm in size for hazardous environments
Product
GAS QUANTIFICATION
H2 | INGA5
Detecting 0.2% concentration, accurate to 3% for calorific value / combustion control 
Application
Precise 
Detection 
of Leak
Know your 
Hydrogen 
Content 
o Piping Joints
o Flanges & Valves 
o Storage Tanks
o Compression / 
Measurement Stations
o Combustion Control
o Redelivery Points
o Injection Management
o Biomethane Reactors
o Storage
Precision Protection for a 
Hydrogen-Powered World.
Plug & play inspection
Automate the regular inspection and maintenance of valves, flanges, 
pumps, compressors, joints, storage tanks, pressure relief devices. 
and connections for potential leaks. Gaskets and seals used in pumps, valves, and flanges can degrade or fail over time, leading to leakage, by implementing Fast Sense we can help minimize leaks and prolong the equipment's lifespan, promoting a safer and more environmentally responsible operation.
USE CASE 
MOBILITY
Precision Protection for a Hydrogen-Powered World. Fast Sense is ideal for continuous monitoring in a Hydrogen (H2) pipelines due to our high sensitivity and real-time response 
capabilities. Integrated into an automated system, our sensors’ are low maintenance and environmental stable making Fast Sense a reliable and efficient solution for ensuring safety and efficiency in the H2 transportation system.
Safeguard 
Fuel cell 
storage 
tanks
Quantify
Hydrogen 
delivery 
CH₄
METHANE H₂
HYDROGEN
6
Know your Hydrogen Content 
Pipelines are limited to 2% blend with some countries allowing 10%-20%. For new suppliers of Green H2
Energy to enter the market, H₂ needs to be injected and reduced from 100% down to the acceptable amounts. 
The mix Methane (Natural gas) and H₂ must quantified for both operational and precise fiscal billing.
Accurate and reliable H2 delivery with continuously monitoring
Controlled blending of natural gas and H2 from electrolysis is crucial to comply with regulations and maintain the desired 5-20% H2 levels in the gas grid. Fast Sense sensors continuously monitor H2 levels, enabling valve adjustments for accurate H2 
flow.
USE CASE 
PIPELINE 
Sensing in Bio-methanation
Industrial Bio-methanation 
beyond Industrial usage
Concept’s known as "home hydrogen production" or "residential hydrogen generation." could compliment the biogas home kits for biomethanation in which a market for Fast Sense could open up beyond industrial usage.
USE CASE 
MOBILITY
Injecting H2 gas into biogas and AD reactors plays a vital role in optimizing process conditions, To enhance the 
efficiency of the bio methanation process, it is crucial to optimize the dissolution of H2. Consequently, monitoring 
the concentration of H2 becomes significant in the bio methanation reactor, both in terms of its presence in the 
liquid phase and the gas phase.
Our sensor probe goes in here Hydrogen gets injected here Hydrogen Redelivery Points Blending/Deblending
When Hydrogen is delivered as a blend and needs to be deblended, Fast Sense accurately measures the hydrogen content at each point, streamlining fiscal billing processes and offering a reliable alternative to traditional methods. This 
advanced technology ensures accurate measurements and 
cost savings for various applications in the gas industry.
USE CASE 
MOBILITY
Fast Sense provides a cost-effective solution for uantifying the hydrogen content at redelivery points, eliminating the need for expensive gas chromatographs. Whether for storage, refueling, or industrial usage, these exit points are critical in gas delivery. 
Safeguard 
Fuel cell 
storage 
tanks
Quantify
Hydrogen 
delivery 
The Need for Hydrogen Gas Monitoring
• Risks associated with Hydrogen leaks.
• Importance of real-time monitoring for safety & efficiency.
Federal regulators to consider whether to shut 
down Weymouth gas compressor
Different animal because of its Fugitive molecule
• Hydrogen not Methane
Real-time, Reliable, Accurate 
and Miniature Embeddable 
Sensors on a Chip 
(End nodes)
Management 
Cluster Gateway
(LoRaWan/5G)
Cloud-based 
Optimized Data 
(API Endpoints) Dashboard of Clustered 
End Node Sensors 
(H2 Quantification)
Presentation of Fast Sense Technology
• Fast Sense technology for remote locations and measuring stations.
• Suitable for environments, including challenges like limited access, harsh conditions, 
and the critical need for accurate and reliable monitoring.
Technology Deep Dive
• How we sense.
• Next step is micro nano sized casing and microelectronics.
Patent: Laser Induced Bubble Technique - Semiconductor Fabrication with Nanoparticles (US/Europe)
Fabrication process Membrane
Overview POC Scope & Future Vision
• POC not Prototype: Determine potential.
• Target: Network of sensors in remote locations
• Testing Process: Mimic the conditions in remote locations to ensure reliability and accuracy.
• Future Development:
• Price Point: Moves to production, economies of scale 
- reduce the price to $$’s not $$$$’s.
• Size Reduction: Plans for compatibility, enhancing 
applicability in various settings.
• Power Usage: Reduce power consumption in the final 
product, contributing to sustainability and operational efficiency.
Installation Requirements, Needs, & Leak Detection Testing
• Materials:
• Leak Detection Test Equipment: Test equipment needed for leak detection, such as pressure 
gauges, portable gas sensors, on wall gas sensors, gas analyzers, etc.
• Integration with Existing Equipment: Test equipment to work alongside Fast Sense 
technology and any existing equipment at the location.
Hydrogen Leak Straps
Equipment and flange integrity
POC Requirements, Needs, & Leak Detection Though Process
• Testing Process:
• Leak Detection: Methodology for testing leak detection, including procedures, 
parameters, and expected outcomes.
• Compatibility with Remote Locations: Simulate special considerations to address 
how the testing procedure and equipment would be suitable for remote locations and measuring stations. Iot, LAN, Modbus etc
• Considerations for the POC: Additional support or monitoring that might not be required for the final product.
• Operating Conditions: Casing in protecting the sensors will be down to materials and design that offer durability and resistance to environmental factors
Field Demonstration
• Demo: Demonstrating the sensor in a real pipeline environment.
• Reporting: Procedures, goals, and expected outcomes.
SOW
• Startup (Fast Sense Technology):
• Development: Manpower related to the design, manufacturing, and testing of the prototype.
• Implementation: Manpower for implementing product, including hardware, 
software, and integration with existing systems.
SOW 
• TSO Network (Enagás):
• Sensor Installation: Manpower associated with integrating sensors into the existing gas network, including hardware, labor, and any modifications to infrastructure.
• Testing & Monitoring: Expenses for additional testing equipment and ongoing monitoring services.
• Remote Location Considerations: Implementing and maintaining sensors in remote locations and measuring stations.
Planning
•Enagás Timelines:
• Sensor Installation:
• 1-3 months: This includes assessing the sites, procuring necessary equipment, actual installation, and initial testing.
• Testing & Monitoring:
• Ongoing, with initial intensive testing over 1-2 months: This period will involve frequent checks and refinements.
• Remote Location Considerations:
• Additional 2-4 weeks: Taking into account the logistics and challenges of remote locations.
SEPT SCOPE DEC
OCT JAN
NOV FEB BUFFER
Planning
•Fast Sense Timelines:
• POC Development:
• 3-4 months: Involves designing, creating, testing, and refining the sensors casing, electronics and certification.
• Onsite Implementation:
• 1-2 months: After the sensor is refined, implementing the POC might be quicker since the foundation has been set.
• Future Development & Scale (TBD):
• 6-12 months: This phase might be longer as it involves refining the product based on POC feedback, scaling production, and implementing cost-saving measures.
SEPT SCOPE DEC
OCT JAN
NOV FEB BUFFER
Challenges & Solutions
• Identification of potential obstacles in implementation.
• Strategies to address these challenges.
Questions & Thank You
• Open the floor for questions.
• Thank attendees for their time and consideration